---
title: Web UI
---

The Fractal web UI provides a web-based interface to browse your components and their associated files, as well as view project documentation and assets.

It can be run as via an in-built development server or exported to static HTML.

If you are using the Fractal CLI tool, you can start the local web UI server (and watch the file system for changes) with the `start` command from within the root of your project directory:

```plain
fractal start --watch
```

See the {{ link('@server', 'dev server') }} documentation for more information and configuration options.

<!-- The UI itself is generated by _themes_, allowing the interface (and URLs) to be {{ link('@customisation-web', 'completely customised') }}, if required. The {{ link('@default-theme', 'default theme') }} (called 'Mandelbrot') that ships with Fractal also supports a number of customisation options if you don't want to roll your own custom theme from scratch. -->

## Static Assets



## Themes

The web UI is built upon *themes*. Themes are very powerful, and allow complete control over everything from look and feel to URLs and functionality. Themes can be used to customise the look and feel of the web UI to match your project or even to give a completely different 'view' of your component library to different project stakeholders - for instance a 'no code' theme for people that might only be interested in reviewing the component previews.

The {{ link('@default-theme', 'default theme') }} (called 'Mandelbrot') that ships with Fractal also supports a number of customisation options if you don't want to roll your own custom theme from scratch.

## Configuration

You can configure various aspects of the web UI using the {{ link('@api-web#set', '`fractal.web.set()`') }} method. For example, to use the integrated BrowserSync option by default, you can set the `sync` option to `true` as follows:

```js
fractal.web.set('server.sync', true);
```

<div class="Note Note--callout">
    <p>Only {{ link('@web-config', 'core web configuration') }} options can be set using the `fractal.web.set()` method. Theme-specific configuration options must be set on the theme instance itself.</p>
    <p>See the {{ link('@default-theme#configuration', 'default theme docs') }} or the {{ link('@customisation-web', 'themes customisation guide') }} for more information.</p>
</div>

<!--

## Local development server

## Exporting to static HTML

## Static Assets

-->
